Add initial content (#1)
snowplow/snowplow-web-performance-accelerator: content/website-monitoring/monitor_1.md

+++
title = "Monitor your Web Performance"
weight = 1
post = ""
+++

> In this section, we are going give you a brief but important overview of why we believe web performance data collection and monitoring is imperative to successful online e-business efforts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we are going give you a brief, but important, overview of why we believe web performance data collection and monitoring is imperative to successful online business efforts.
```

#### Why care about Web Performance ?

> Business success for a conversion-oriented web property, commerce or not, is undoubtedly dependent on delivering a great experience to the users interested in its offering. When loading a webpage, either on mobile or desktop, the perceived experience of a user depends on a few standard factors. These factors and their corresponding measurements converge into few categories as such:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Business success for a conversion-oriented web property, commerce or not, is undoubtedly dependent on delivering a great experience to the users interested in its offering. When loading a webpage, either on mobile or desktop, the perceived experience of a user depends on a few standard factors. These factors and their corresponding measurements converge into a few categories:
```

- **Perceived load speed**: how quickly a page can load and render all of its visual elements to the screen
- **Load responsiveness**: how quickly a page can load and execute any required JavaScript code in order for components to respond quickly to user interaction
- **Runtime responsiveness**: after page load, how quickly can the page respond to user interaction
- **Visual stability**: do elements on the page shift in ways that users don't expect and potentially interfere with their interactions?
- **Smoothness**: do transitions and animations render at a consistent frame rate and flow fluidly from one state to the next?

All of the above types of experience characteristics can be quantified in a best-effort way by monitoring and analyzing metrics which belong to the web performance category.

#### Why track Web Vital metrics for your site ?

One initiative which brought some attention into the website experience space is Google’s [Core Web Vitals](https://web.dev/vitals/). Core Web Vitals are described as _quality signals that are essential to delivering a great user experience on the web_.

> These metrics are for quite some time now officially a factor for the Google algorithm for ranking pages in their search results. This fact automatically makes any Core Web Vital metrics, almost directly correlated to increased visitation and engagement on your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These metrics have, for quite some time now, been officially a factor for the Google algorithm for ranking pages in their search results. This fact makes any Core Web Vital metrics almost directly correlated to increased visitation and engagement on your site.
```

##### Core Web Vitals

Main dashboard with the most important metrics: LCP, FID, CLS and TTFB with most important dimensions such as period, device, top 10 most popular pages and location.

![Core Web Vitals](../images/1.png?width=40pc)

##### Low Performing URLs

Dashboard focusing on the worst performing URLs.

![Low Performing URLs](../images/2.png?width=40pc)

##### Core Web Vitals by Period

Core Web Vital visuals tracked across time.

![LCore Web Vitals by Periods](../images/3.png?width=40pc)

##### Visits

This dashboard focuses on the number of page visits and classifies them according to value and result.

![Visits](../images/4.png?width=40pc)

##### Browser Performance

These visuals show the percentage of good / needs improvement / poor results across web browsers.

> ![Browser Performance](../images/5.png?width=40pc)

Reviewer: In these ones, could we add to the description a reason _why_ you might care about that. We know what they do, but why/link it back to the usecase for looking at this in the first place?
